# ToricAsymmetry
Calculate entanglement asymmetry of deformed toric code using DMRG 
 
The most important file is deformed_asym.py, which calculates the entanglement asymmetry of a symmetry-breaking ground state of the deformed toric code. Requires TeNPy version 1.1.0 to run DMRG and extract the ground states of the model. 

Users input a value of the deformation parameter beta at the top, which defines the model. Users also input the overall torus dimensions Lx (variable) and Ly (suggested to be 4), and the width of the cylindrical subregion A used to compute the entanglement asymmetry (suggested to be width = 2).

The code runs DMRG twice to create a ground state of the model that breaks the 1-form symmetry generated by the Wilson loop along the x-cycle of the torus, W_x. The resulting SSB state has < psi | W_x | psi >  =  0, but this global symmetry may not be detectable inside the subregion A. Entanglement asymmetry quantifies how much this global symmetry-breaking is detectible in A.

The code requires a directory data/ where the data can be stored after running. Large system sizes like Lx = 20 (and Ly = 4, width=2) may require 5-6 hours of runtime on 8 core node with 10-12 GB of memory. Users should run deformed_asym.py several times with different beta and different Lx (system sizes). Some suggested beta values are 10-20 numbers between 0 and 1, suggested Lx are 4, 8, 12, 16, 20. Generating data is best done on HPC cluster.

The file plot_data.py makes a plot of asymmetry vs. beta with all the available data in the directory data/. The plot should show two different phases. At low beta (topological phase), the entanglement asymmetry does not change much with system size Lx, and is close to log 2. At high beta (trivial phase), the entanglement asymmetry decays as Lx grows.

